readme.md, before:

![# tinytalk](logo.png)

```
Animal := [new
            health := 100.
            [die
              health <- 0.
            |health
              health]].
Cat := [new
         [makeSound
           console print: 'Meow!'.
         | ...Animal new]].
Dog := [new
         [makeSound
           console print: 'Woof!'.
         | ...Animal new]].

peppy := Cat new.
peppy makeSound. "This will print 'Meow!'"
console print: peppy health. "100"
```

A purely object-oriented toy language, demonstrating how OOP does not need inheritance, traditional classes or prototypes.

## Semantics

Every value is an object, and an object is a record of closures. Objects track state using the variables available in their lexical scope.

## Syntax

Operator precedence is not finalized, but is currently as follows:
* Unary messages have the highest precedence. `3 factorial + 4` means `(3 factorial) + 4`.
* Binary operators are next, and left-associative. `3 + 4 * 5 min: 2` means `((3 + 4) * 5) min: 2`.
* Keyword messages are last and also left-associative.

Expressions can be sequenced with `.`.

Object literals are defined with `[]` enclosing a set of methods and decorations, separated by `|`. A method consists of a method signature and a sequence of expressions. `...<expr>` is a decoration, and copies methods from a given object.

## Utilities

There are several builtin convenience objects.

* Numbers, strings and booleans implement a variety of operators. Strings can `import` the file with their name in the repository, e.g. `'brainfuck' import`.
* Booleans implement `if:`, sending `true` or `false`.
* The `console` can `read` input, `print:` or `write:` output, or throw an `error:`.
* The `Array` object can create `new` arrays, that can get values `at:` a position, or `at:Put:`.
* The `system` can `require:` tinytalk code or `open:` files. Files can `read` lines, `readAll`, `write:`, get their `position` and `size`, `goto:`, `move:` and `close`.

Commit message:

Implement blocks and early returns

readme.md, after:

![# tinytalk](logo.png)

```
Animal := [new
            health := 100.
            [die
              health <- 0.
            |health
              health]].
Cat := [new
         [makeSound
           console print: 'Meow!'.
         | ...Animal new]].
Dog := [new
         [makeSound
           console print: 'Woof!'.
         | ...Animal new]].

peppy := Cat new.
peppy makeSound. "This will print 'Meow!'"
console print: peppy health. "100"
```

A purely object-oriented toy language, demonstrating how OOP does not need inheritance, traditional classes or prototypes.

## Semantics

Every value is an object, and an object is a record of closures. Objects track state using the variables available in their lexical scope.

## Syntax

Operator precedence is not finalized, but is currently as follows:
* Unary messages have the highest precedence. `3 factorial + 4` means `(3 factorial) + 4`.
* Binary operators are next, and left-associative. `3 + 4 * 5 min: 2` means `((3 + 4) * 5) min: 2`.
* Keyword messages are last and also left-associative.

Expressions can be sequenced with `.`, returning the value of the last expression evaluated *unless* an explicit return is used with `^`.

Object literals are defined with `[]` enclosing a set of methods and decorations, separated by `|`. A method consists of a method signature and a sequence of expressions. `...<expr>` is a decoration, and copies methods from a given object.

A block can be defined with `{}` and contains a single expression. This defines an object with a single method, `do`. Explicit returns ignore block methods created this way.

## Utilities

There are several builtin convenience objects.

* Numbers, strings and booleans implement a variety of operators. Strings can `import` the file with their name in the repository, e.g. `'brainfuck' import`.
* Booleans implement `if:`, sending `true` or `false`.
* The `console` can `read` input, `print:` or `write:` output, or throw an `error:`.
* The `Array` object can create `new` arrays, that can get values `at:` a position, or `at:Put:`.
* The `system` can `require:` tinytalk code or `open:` files. Files can `read` lines, `readAll`, `write:`, get their `position` and `size`, `goto:`, `move:` and `close`.
